
--- PAGE 1 ---
Ind Fairness in IM
First Author1[0000−1111−2222−3333], Second Author2,3[1111−2222−3333−4444], and
Third Author3[2222−−3333−4444−5555]
1 Princeton University, Princeton NJ 08544, USA
2 Springer Heidelberg, Tiergartenstr. 17, 69121 Heidelberg, Germany
lncs@springer.com
http://www.springer.com/gp/computer-science/lncs
3 ABC Institute, Rupert-Karls-University Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany
{abc,lncs}@uni-heidelberg.de
Abstract.The abstract should briefly summarize the contents of the
paper in 150–250 words.
Keywords:First keyword·Second keyword·Another keyword.
1 Proposed Method
The Myopic algorithm selects the node with the lowest probability of receiv-
ing information. Although this directly targets the least-accessible individual, it
does not consider whether the selected node has sufficient spreading capability to
improve information access for other disadvantaged nodes. In particular, a node
with a very low probability of receiving information may be located at the net-
work periphery and may have limited ability to propagate information further.
To address this limitation, we propose a simple propagation-aware framework
that considers two complementary characteristics of each candidate node:
1.Accessibility disadvantage: How unlikely is the node to receive the infor-
mation?
2.Spreading power: If selected as a seed, how effectively can the node prop-
agate information to other disadvantaged nodes?
The two quantities are combined to obtain a fairness-aware seed selection
score.
1.1 Step 1: Estimating Information Accessibility
Let
G= (V,E)
denote a network, letS⊆Vdenote the current seed set, and letαdenote the
transmission probability under the Independent Cascade Model (ICM).
Foreachnodev∈V,wefirstestimateitsprobabilityofreceivinginformation:
pv(S) = Pr(vreceives information|S).(1)
--- PAGE 2 ---
2 F. Author et al.
This quantity can be estimated using theProbEstprocedure employed by
the Myopic algorithm, or using a computationally cheaper approximation such
as a BFS- or PPR-based accessibility estimator.
I will suggest that you estimate it using the BFS- or PPR-based
accessibility estimator. The first seed node should be selected using
the highest pagerank pr highest core number. For the initial imple-
mentation, you can only use PageRank
We transform the information-access probability into adisadvantage score:
D(v) = 1−p v(S) (2)
whereD(v)∈[0,1]. A high value ofD(v)indicates that nodevcurrently has
poor information access. For example,
pv(S) = 0.1 =⇒D(v) = 0.9,
whereas
pv(S) = 0.8 =⇒D(v) = 0.2.
Thus,D(v)captures the first component of the seed-selection problem:
How underserved is nodevunder the current diffusion process?
1.2 Step 2: Estimating the Spreading Power of a Node
Accessibility alone is insufficient for seed selection because a highly disadvan-
taged node may have little ability to propagate information further. We therefore
introduce a second quantity,R(v), representing thespreading powerof nodev.
A correct way to define is the expected cascade size whenvis selected as a
seed:
R(v) =E[|Cascade(v)|].(3)
However, conventional spreading power may not be desirable for fair infor-
mation outreach as well as it is costly to compute,so I propose a better
estimator to estimate it.
Fair Spreading PowerTo address this issue, we define afair spreading power
that gives greater importance to propagation toward poorly accessible nodes.
Let
Pv→u
denotetheprobabilitythatinformationoriginatingfromcandidatenodevreaches
nodeu. We define
R(v) =
X
u∈V
u̸=v
D(u)Pv→u (4)
--- PAGE 3 ---
Ind Fairness in IM 3
or equivalently,
R(v) =
X
u∈V
u̸=v
(1−p u(S))Pv→u.(5)
Under this formulation, propagating information to a node with low current
access contributes more toR(v)than propagating information to an already
well-served node.
Therefore,R(v)answers the second question:
How effectively can nodevpropagate information toward currently un-
derserved individuals?
Approximation of Fair Spreading PowerComputingPv→u exactly for ev-
ery pair(v,u)can be computationally expensive. We therefore propose a simple
distance-based approximation.
Under the Independent Cascade Model, transmission along a path of length
drequires approximatelydsuccessful transmission events. Assuming a uniform
edge transmission probabilityα, we use
Pv→u≈α d(v,u),(6)
whered(v,u)denotes the shortest-path distance betweenvandu.
The fair spreading score can then be approximated as
R(v) =
X
u∈V
u̸=v
D(u)αd(v,u) (7)
This formulation has an intuitive interpretation:
–disadvantaged nodes receive larger weights throughD(u);
–nearby nodes receive larger weights becauseαd(v,u) decreases with distance;
–distant nodes contribute less because reaching them requires more successful
transmissions.
For improved scalability, propagation can be restricted to nodes withinL
hops:
R(L)(v) =
X
u̸=v
d(v,u)≤L
D(u)αd(v,u) (8)
whereLis typically a small integer such as2or3. I will suggest that
you do experiments for 2 or 3 only.This avoids computing the contribution
of distant nodes whose influence is already strongly discounted byαd(v,u).
--- PAGE 4 ---
4 F. Author et al.
Normalization: don’t do it for now I will suggest that in initial exper-
iments, you can avoid the normalization step and just see what the
range of these values is, and whether we can define lambda in such a
way that we still get good results.
Since the accessibility-disadvantage score and spreading-power score may
have different scales, we can normalize both quantities before combining them.
The normalized disadvantage score is
eD(v) = D(v)−D min
Dmax−D min
,(9)
where
Dmin = min
u/∈S
D(u), D max = max
u/∈S
D(u).
Similarly,
eRF (v) = RF (v)−R F,min
RF,max−RF,min
.(10)
Consequently,
eD(v), eRF (v)∈[0,1].
1.3 Step 3: Final Score: Combined Propagation-Aware Fairness
Score
We combine the two components using a weighted objective:
FS(v) =λ eD(v) + (1−λ) eR(v) (11)
where
0≤λ≤1.
The parameterλcontrols the trade-off between prioritizing the candidate’s
own information disadvantage and its ability to improve information access for
other disadvantaged nodes.
When
λ= 1,
the objective becomes
FS(v) = eD(v),
which is equivalent in spirit to the Myopic strategy: preference is given entirely
to nodes with poor current information access.
When
λ= 0,
the objective becomes
FS(v) = eRF (v),
and seed selection is determined entirely by the node’s ability to propagate
information toward disadvantaged individuals.
Intermediate values ofλbalance these two objectives.
--- PAGE 5 ---
Ind Fairness in IM 5
1.4 Step 4: Seed Selection
At each iteration, the candidate with the largest combined score is selected:
v∗ = arg max
v∈V\S
FS(v) (12)
The selected node is added to the seed set:
S←S∪{v ∗}.(13)
After adding the new seed, the information-access probabilitiespv(S)are
updated, which in turn updates the disadvantage scoresD(v)and fair spreading-
power scoresRF (v). The procedure is repeated until the desired seed budgetk
is reached.
2 Alternative approaches for final score
I propose 2 more approaches to compute the final score as defined in
Step 3, and you can try all 3 of these and see which one is better.
2.1 Multiplicative Alternative
An alternative to the weighted additive objective is a multiplicative formulation:
FS mult(v) = eD(v)λeR(v)1−λ (14)
A particularly simple version is
FS mult(v) = eD(v)eR(v).(15)
The multiplicative formulation favors candidates that perform well onboth
dimensions. For example, an extremely disadvantaged but structurally isolated
node receives a low score because its spreading power is small. Similarly, a highly
influential hub that already has very high information access receives a low score
because its disadvantage is small.
In contrast, the additive formulation permits a sufficiently large value on one
dimension to compensate for a smaller value on the other. We therefore consider
the additive and multiplicative formulations as two variants of the proposed
method.
2.2 Pareto-Based Candidate Filtering
Before computing the final combined score, an optional Pareto filtering step can
be applied. Each candidatevis represented by the pair

eD(v), eR(v)

.
--- PAGE 6 ---
6 F. Author et al.
A candidatevis dominated by candidateuif
eD(u)≥ eD(v)(16)
and
eRF (u)≥ eRF (v),(17)
with at least one strict inequality. Dominated candidates can be removed because
another candidate is simultaneously more disadvantaged and has greater fair
spreading capability.
The combined scoring function can then be applied only to candidates on
the Pareto frontier.
3 Proposed Algorithm
I roughly type the algorithm as it can help you in better understanding.
Algorithm 1Propagation-Aware Fair Seed Selection
Require:GraphG= (V,E), initial seed setS, seed budgetk, transmission probability
α, trade-off parameterλ, propagation depthL
Ensure:Seed setS
1: add first seed node toSbased on highest Pagerank
2:while|S|<kdo
3: Estimate information-access probabilityp v(S)for everyv∈V
4:foreachv∈V\Sdo
5:D(v)←1−p v(S)
6:end for
7:foreachv∈V\Sdo
8:
RF (v)←
X
u̸=v
d(v,u)≤L
D(u)αd(v,u)
9:end for
10: NormalizeD(v)to obtain eD(v)(we skip it for now)
11: NormalizeR F (v)to obtain eRF (v)(we skip it for now)
12:foreachv∈V\Sdo
13:
FS(v)←λ eD(v) + (1−λ) eRF (v)
W e try all 3 approaches for this
14:end for
15:
v∗←arg max
v∈V\S
FS(v)
16:S←S∪{v ∗}
17:end while
18:returnS
--- PAGE 7 ---
Ind Fairness in IM 7
4 Interpretation
The proposed method separates seed selection into two complementary ques-
tions:
D(v)|{z}
How underserved is nodev?
andR F (v)| {z }
How effectively canvimprove outreach to underserved nodes?
(18)
The final seed-selection criterion combines these quantities:
Fair Seed Score=λAccessibility Disadvantage| {z }
individual need
+(1−λ)Fair Spreading Power| {z }
downstream benefit
.
(19)
Thus, unlike Myopic, the proposed method does not automatically select
the least-accessible node. Instead, it favors nodes that are themselves relatively
underserved while also occupying network positions from which information can
propagate effectively toward other underserved individuals.
First try for one setting and see how this method works, and if it is better
or close to the best one, we can fine-tune it. Instead of doing experiments for all
settings, first do them for minimal settings and share the results.