
--- PAGE 1 ---
Fast algorithms to improve fair information access in networks
Dennis Robert Windham1, Caroline J. Wendt 1, Alex Crane 2, Madelyn J Warr 2, Freda Shi 2,
Sorelle A. Friedler3, Blair D. Sullivan 2, Aaron Clauset 1,4,5
1Department of Computer Science, University of Colorado
2University of Utah
3Haverford College
4BioFrontiers Institute, University of Colorado
5Santa Fe Institute
ABSTRACT
We consider the problem of selecting𝑘 seed nodes in a network to
maximize the minimum probability of activation under an indepen-
dent cascade beginning at these seeds. The motivation is to promote
fairness by ensuring that even the least advantaged members of
the network have good access to information. Our problem can be
viewed as a variant of the classic influence maximization objective,
but it appears somewhat more difficult to solve: only heuristics
are known. Moreover, the scalability of these methods is sharply
constrained by the need to repeatedly estimate access probabilities.
We design and evaluate a suite of 10 new scalable algorithms
which crucially do not require probability estimation. To facilitate
comparison with the state-of-the-art, we make three more contribu-
tions which may be of broader interest. We introduce a principled
method of selecting a pairwise information transmission parameter
used in experimental evaluations, as well as a new performance
metric which allows for comparison of algorithms across a range of
values for the parameter𝑘. Finally, we provide a new benchmark
corpus of 174 networks drawn from 6 domains. Our algorithms re-
tain most of the performance of the state-of-the-art while reducing
running time by orders of magnitude. Specifically, a meta-learner
approach is on average only 20% less effective than the state-of-the-
art on held-out data, but about 75− 130 times faster. Further, the
meta-learner’s performance exceeds the state-of-the-art on about
20% of networks, and the magnitude of its running time advantage
is maintained on much larger networks.
1 INTRODUCTION
Influence maximization [11, 30] is one of the most intensively stud-
ied problems in data mining, machine learning, and social network
analysis. Given some model of information diffusion, commonly
the independent cascade of Kempe, Kleinberg, and Tardos [30], the
task is to determine where we should seed information such that
it spreads as widely as possible. Formally, given a graph 𝐺 and
𝑆⊆𝑉(𝐺), for each𝑖∈𝑉(𝐺) let𝜋𝑖(𝑆) denote the probability with
which𝑖 is activated by an independent cascade seeded at𝑆; we will
just write𝜋𝑖 when the set𝑆 is clear. Then for a given budget𝑘, in-
fluence maximization is the problem of identifying a set𝑆⊆𝑉(𝐺)
of cardinality𝑘 which maximizes ˝
𝑖∈𝑉(𝐺)𝜋𝑖.
Influence maximization is commonly motivated by commercial
advertising, e.g., [11, 15, 40] but is also relevant in various other
applications, including public health [31, 51], the distribution of eco-
nomic opportunities [2], and the spread of scientific knowledge [41].
In these applications, the desiderata include not only widespread
but also fair dissemination of information. The difficulty of the
latter goal is a natural consequence of structural heterogeneity in
networks. Highly-connected or centrally located individuals have
more opportunities to receive and spread information [12, 38, 49],
while peripheral individuals with few connections participate less
often in information exchanges [18, 38]. For example, in a pandemic,
access to crucial resources—such as money, food and healthcare—is
more difficult for socially disadvantaged groups, in part due to their
more limited connectedness in social networks [20]. Similarly, con-
nectedness shapes employment opportunities in professional social
networks such as LinkedIn: well-connected job seekers are likely
to fill lucrative openings sooner than others [ 50]. This situation
has motivated the study of several variations of influence maxi-
mization, for example to ensure equitable information access with
respect to demographic groups [45]. In this paper, we focus on the
formulation of Fish et al. [18], which adopts a Rawlsian [39] notion
of fairness in which the goal is to improve the information access
of the worst-off individuals. Formally, the problem is as follows:
Maximin Influence Maximization
Input: A graph𝐺 =(𝑉,𝐸) and an integer𝑘.
Task: Select𝑘 vertices𝑆⊆𝑉 maximizing min𝑖∈𝑉 𝜋𝑖.
This maximin variant is NP-hard, and even a constant-factor
approximation would imply P = NP [18], in stark contrast to the
greedy(1− 1/𝑒)-approximation for the standard objective [ 30].
However, Fish et al. show that a heuristic approach (Myopic; see
Section 3.1) optimizes the objective well in practice. Indeed, this
approach even performs well when evaluated via the classic influ-
ence maximization objective, which it does not directly optimize.
Unfortunately, this heuristic relies upon repeated Monte Carlo
simulations of the activation probabilities 𝜋𝑖, which are a severe
computational bottleneck and thereby constrain the scalability of
the method; see Figure 1. Additionally, the method has only been
evaluated on a small corpus of six networks.
We are thus motivated to (a) introduce new algorithms which
alleviate or completely avoid the bottleneck imposed by probability
estimation; (b) compare the performance of our methods against
that of Myopic in a principled manner,; and (c) expand the num-
ber and diversity of networks on which the Maximin Influence
Maximization problem has been studied.
1.1 Related Work and Preliminaries
Fairness in ML and Social Networks. Fairness in machine learning is
a well-studied area, and includes notions of fairness based both on
individual characteristics and on group demographics [16, 17, 26]
arXiv:2409.03127v2  [cs.SI]  19 Feb 2025
--- PAGE 2 ---
5001000200040007500
number of nodes, n
0.1
1
10
100
1000
10000
100000runtime (milliseconds)
Random
Myopic*
Naive Myopic*
Gonzalesz
Figure 1: Algorithm runtime to select 10 new seeds vs.
network size for algorithms in [18], averaged over 10 runs
on an introduced large set of networks (see Section 2.1).
Algorithms requiring a Monte Carlo simulation ( ProbEst) to
select seeds are denoted by a ∗.
(for surveys, see [10, 37]). Recently, questions of fairness of infor-
mation access of individuals and demographic groups in a network
have come to the fore [1, 18, 32, 43–45, 48]. A significant body of
work focuses on the probability that an individual receives informa-
tion that spreads through a network. This includes studies of seed-
ing information at nodes to improve individual [18] or group [44, 48]
access; as well as interventions to add edges [4–6] under varying
notions of fairness. Other work considers notions of group fairness
based on the network structure [ 3, 29, 32]. Saxena, Fletcher, and
Pechenizkiy provide a recent survey of such work [42]. Fair cluster-
ing of individuals has also received significant attention, e.g., [13].
Independent Cascade. Considerations about the access of individ-
uals to resources in a network build on structural concerns about
social networks pioneered by Granovetter [24]. Necessary in any
such study is a clear model for the dynamics of information propa-
gation. Numerous models exist, notably including the independent
cascade, generalized independent cascade, and linear threshold
models [22, 23, 30]. A standard choice, also adopted in this paper,
is the independent cascade, which can be defined via an iterative
spreading process. At each step𝑖, some subset𝑆𝑖 of nodes is acti-
vated, beginning with an initial seed set𝑆 =𝑆0. In round𝑖+ 1, each
edge𝑢𝑣 with𝑢∈ 𝑆𝑖,𝑣 ∉ —
𝑗≤𝑖𝑆𝑗 activates𝑣 independently with
probability𝛼. The process stops after the first round𝑖 in which no
nodes are activated, i.e.,𝑆𝑖 =∅, and a node𝑣 is said to be activated
by the cascade if it is activated in any round, i.e.,𝑣∈ —𝑆𝑖.
Probability Estimation. Important in any analysis of independent
cascades is the ability to measure the probability 𝜋𝑖 with which
node𝑖 is activated. Unfortunately, exact computation of𝜋𝑖 is #P-
hard [11]. The standard approach is to estimate these values via
reverse influence sampling (RIS) [8, 47], which may also be thought
of as performing a series of Monte Carlo simulations of the cascade
process. Theoretical bounds on the number of simulations needed
to satisfy a given error tolerance 𝜀 have a quadratic dependence
on𝜀 in addition to quasilinear dependence on network size [ 47],
and so in practice it is common to fix a reasonable number 𝑅 of
simulations, e.g., 𝑅 = 1000. Algorithms for influence maximiza-
tion and related problems then invoke a linear-time (regarding
𝑅 as a constant) subroutine, referred to here as ProbEst, to pro-
vide estimated𝜋𝑖 values. In practice, however, algorithms requiring
such a subroutine can be orders of magnitude slower than those
avoiding probability estimation altogether; we again refer to Fig-
ure 1. In the influence maximization literature, much effort has
been expended to lessen the complexity of ProbEst while retain-
ing quality guarantees, e.g., [27, 34, 46], as well as to empirically
compare various strategies [35]. In this work, our approach is to de-
velop methods which avoid RIS entirely and evaluate the resulting
solution quality via empirical comparison against the state-of-the-
art. A purely heuristic approach, while difficult to accept for the
classic influence maximization problem, is palatable in our setting
because strong inapproximability bounds are known for Maximin
Influence Maximization even in the presence of an oracle which
perfectly computes the𝜋𝑖 values [18].
1.2 Summary of Contributions
Network Corpus. In Section 2.1, we introduce a large and struc-
turally diverse corpus of174 networks on which to benchmark both
our algorithms and the state-of-the-art. These networks are drawn
from six domains: biological, social, economic, technological, trans-
portation, and informational. Though our primary interest is in
social networks, building a corpus from multiple domains enhances
the structural diversity of our benchmark set; see the discussion
in Section 2.1. Where relevant, we report results by domain.
Spreadability. When evaluating algorithms in the presence of
an independent cascade, it is necessary to choose a value for the
parameter𝛼 which governs the probability of information trans-
mission along edges. It is common in the literature to choose sev-
eral values, under the assumption that small values fundamentally
represent “low” information spread while large values represent
“high” spread. However, this qualitative assessment of a particular
𝛼 value is not consistent across networks, due to the varying under-
lying combinatorial structure. We introduce spreadability, which
enforces mathematical rigor in the assessment of a particular 𝛼
value as “low”- or “high”-spreading for a given network. We use
this framework to select appropriate𝛼 values for each network in
our corpus, ensuring that we can measure algorithm performance
under multiple distinct regimes of information spread.
Performance Metric. Even with a fixed𝛼 value and a single net-
work, it is non-trivial to compare the performance of algorithms.
Among other factors, this is because we must account for varying
choices of budget𝑘, random number generator seeding, and the
impracticality of precisely measuring the problem objective. We
introduce a performance metric which incorporates all of these
factors, and allows us to evaluate the performance of an algorithm
via a single number𝛽. Intuitively,𝛽 indicates the marginal improve-
ment in the problem objective that we can expect if we use a given
algorithm to add an additional information seed. We defer a more
formal description to Section 2.3.
Algorithms. In Section 3, we introduce10 new algorithms for the
Maximin Influence Maximization problem, which we partition
into three categories. The first two replace the Monte Carlo simula-
tions used by the state-of-the-art to estimate activation probabilities
with heuristics based on breadth-first search and personalized page
rank. The complexity of our subroutines is similar to the Monte
Carlo approach, but the hidden constants are vastly improved, and
2
--- PAGE 3 ---
103 104 105
number of nodes, n
101
102
average degree, 
Transportation
T echnological
Biological
Social
Economic
Informational
d
Figure 2: Average degree of a network as a function of
network size (number of nodes) for the corpus of 174
networks from 6 distinct domains used in our study.
this is reflected in improved running times. The third category of
algorithms eliminates probability estimation entirely, instead using
topological features of the network to inform seed selection.
Evaluation, Meta-Learning, and Scalability. In Section 4, we con-
duct a comprehensive evaluation of our methods, together with a
comparison against the state-of-the-art (Myopic [18]). In Section 4.1,
we show that on most networks at least one of our algorithms is
nearly as effective as or even more effective than Myopic. Mean-
while, our algorithms are much faster, improving on the running
time of Myopic by 1-4 orders of magnitude; see Section 4.2. We build
on these insights by introducing a meta-learner (see Section 4.3),
which uses structural features of a network to predict which of our
algorithms will be most effective on that network. This approach
allows us to recover roughly 80% of the performance of Myopic
while reducing running time by factors of about 75− 130. Finally,
in Section 4.4 we show that these improvements in running time
persist even on several much larger networks.
2 NETWORK CORPUS AND EV ALUATION
METHODS
2.1 Network Corpus
In order to investigate the effects of network structure on algorithm
performance, we construct a corpus of 174 networks from six do-
mains: biological (34), social (44), economic (43), technological (32),
transportation (17), and informational (4). We include non-social
networks in our study in order to more fully characterize the be-
havior of algorithms on structurally diverse real-world networks.
When relevant, we report our results by domain, so that social and
non-social networks can be contrasted. An overview of the corpus
is presented in Figure 2, with summary statistics in Table S1.
Networks were curated from the Index of Complex Networks [14],
a large-scale index of research-quality networks spanning all do-
mains of science, as well as the Netzschleuder network catalogue
and repository [36] and the corpus of Ghasemian, Hosseinmardi,
and Clauset [21]. All networks included in our corpus are simple
graphs, meaning their edges are undirected, unweighted, and there
are no self-loops. Further, they are unipartite, i.e., they only have
one type of node.
Past work on such corpora indicates that domains (and even sub-
domains, e.g., online social networks vs. offline social networks) are
0.00 0.16 0.39 0.67 1.00
activation probability, 
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
spreadability, |T|
n
spreadability
low spreading
med. spreading
high spreading
Figure 3: Spreadability on a network is quantified by the
average fraction of a network’s nodes ⟨|𝑇|⟩/𝑛 in a tree𝑇
grown through an independent cascade from a random
initial seed for a given 𝛼. We define ‘low’, ‘medium’, and
‘high’ spreadability as the 𝛼 that activates, on average, 20%,
50%, and 80% of the network, respectively.
highly distinguishable based on their structure alone [28]. Hence,
a specific effort was made to (i) balance the classes, so that no do-
main was more than 25% of the corpus, (ii) avoid over-representing
networks from particular sources (e.g., Twitter follower networks),
and (iii) ensure that the minimum network size was large enough
to provide good results for information spreading tasks (minimum
number of nodes𝑛min = 500). These choices improve the breadth
and variety of network structure represented in the corpus, and its
utility in the analyses of this study.
2.2 Spreadability
Background. In our work, we leverage the independent cascade
model [30] to study the spread of information in networks and
estimate𝜋𝑖. Given a network𝐺 and a set of activated nodes𝑄⊆𝑉 ,
we grow a forest on 𝐺 under the independent cascade model by
flipping a coin for each edge 𝑒𝑖𝑗 , where𝑖∈ 𝑉\𝑄, 𝑗∈ 𝑄, exactly
once, so that 𝑖 is added to 𝑄 on a successful flip. Each edge 𝑒𝑖𝑗
is considered as a transmission path at most once, and we define
the probability of successful transmission to be 𝛼. We note that
mathematically, it is equivalent to conceptualize the independent
cascade as follows: delete every edge in the graph independently
with probability(1−𝛼); the set𝑄 of activated nodes is exactly the
set of nodes that remain reachable from the seed set 𝑆. As noted
earlier, computing the exact probability of activation for a node𝑖,
denoted𝜋𝑖, is #P-hard [11]. As such, we adopt the standard Monte
Carlo simulation approach, but return later to consider practical
consequences of this choice.
Briefly, using ProbEst, given transmission probability𝛼, num-
ber of simulation rounds 𝑅, and a seed set 𝑆, we estimate 𝜋𝑖 for
every𝑖∈𝑉 using𝑅 independent cascades originating from𝑆 [18].
The worst-case time complexity of ProbEst isO(𝑅(|𝑆|+ 2𝑚)) [18],
where𝑚 is the number of edges in 𝐺. In practice, the computa-
tional cost of ProbEst increases both as the seed set grows and as
𝛼 increases, because both changes tend to increase the size of the
induced information cascades. Past work used𝑅 = 1000 as a balance
between statistical accuracy for𝜋𝑖 and computational cost, and we
follow this precedent [18]. Here, ProbEst is used as a subroutine
3
--- PAGE 4 ---
z
Figure 4: Minimum access probability 𝜋min vs. seed set size 𝑘,
with a best fit line ( Myopic ˆ𝛽 = 0.039), averaged over 20 runs,
evaluated on a large economic network (𝑛 = 2113 nodes,
𝑚 = 57927 edges), with𝛼 = 0.4 and a budget of 𝑘 = 10 seeds,
plus one random initial seed.
in some algorithms, as well as to evaluate the performance of algo-
rithms by estimating the achieved minimum activation probability
of a computed seed set.
Selecting𝛼 values. Prior work evaluated algorithm performance
using transmission probabilities𝛼∈{ 0.3, 0.4, 0.5} [18]. However,
the resulting information cascades, and hence the associated access
probabilities, are not a simple function of𝛼; they instead also depend
on the network’s structure. For example, denser, more connected
networks contain many more paths by which information can
spread than do sparse networks. Hence the same 𝛼 will tend to
produce larger cascades on the former, and smaller cascades on
the latter. To control for these structure-induced differences in
information cascades, we introduce the concept of spreadability,
which jointly accounts for the impact of network structure and
transmission rate𝛼 on the sizes of information cascades.
We can construct a fine-grained spreadability function that re-
lates a particular choice of𝛼 to the fraction of a network activated
under the independent cascade model from a uniformly random
initial seed. For a given 𝛼, the spreadability 𝑓(𝛼) on a particular
network the fraction of nodes that are activated from a uniformly
random initial seed, averaged over 𝑅 trials. This calculation pro-
duces a monotonically increasing curve, as seen in Figure 3. We
find that computing spreadability for each𝛼∈{ 0.01, 0.02,... 0.99}
provides ample resolution to choose𝛼 close to target spreadabili-
ties of 0.2, 0.5, 0.8 (which we refer to as “low, ” “medium, ” and “high”
spreadabilities respectively). We set𝑅 = 1000, as the spreadability
curve tends to stabilize near this value and we get diminishing
returns for larger𝑅.
2.3 New Metric for Algorithm Evaluation
As discussed in Section 1.2, it is not straightforward to compare
the performance of algorithms, even with a fixed network and𝛼
value. There are several reasons for this. First, we do not want to
make strong assumptions about the “most useful” value for the
parameter𝑘 (the number of seeds to be added), and it is possible
that algorithmA obtains a better objective score (the minimum
activation probability𝜋min) than algorithmA′ for one value of𝑘,
but not for another. Moreover, many algorithms (in particular those
0.25
0.5
0.25
0.5
0.5
0.75
1
1
1
10.11
0.22
0.43
0.56
0.56
0.11
0.22
0.25
Figure 5: Illustrations of two runs of Myopic for different
initial seeds (red), with new selected seeds (yellow), and
fixed𝛼 = 0.5. Numbers indicate 𝜋 for each node after the
new seed is selected. Initialization significantly affects the
performance of Myopic.
using ProbEst) have some randomness. Finally, even our analysis
of the quality of a solution is inexact; recall that exact computation
of the𝜋min achieved by a seed set𝑆 is #P-hard [11]. Thus, our ability
to compare two solutions is limited by the precision of ProbEst.
We overcome these challenges by introducing a metric𝛽, which
intuitively measures the marginal gain in the problem objective
(the minimum activation probability 𝜋min) which we can expect
when asking an algorithm to add one additional seed. Formally, for
a given algorithmA, network𝐺, independent cascade parameter
𝛼, and budget𝑘, we runA on(𝐺,𝛼,𝑘) and record a value𝜋min(𝑘)
indicating the achieved objective score. We repeat for each 𝑘 ∈
{1, 2,..., 10}, computing the points(𝑘,𝜋 min(𝑘))∈ N×[ 0, 1]. We
then record the slope𝛽1 of the line of best fit for these points. We
repeat the entire process multiple (generally 20) times, producing
slopes𝛽1,𝛽 2,... . The metric𝛽 is the mean of these values, i.e., the
average slope of the line of best fit; see Figure 4. Henceforth, when
comparing the performance of algorithms, we do so via the metric𝛽.
3 ALGORITHMS FOR FAIR INFORMATION
ACCESS
3.1 Algorithms from Prior Work
Four previously introduced heuristics for choosing seed nodes to
maximize𝜋min are Greedy, Myopic, Naive Myopic and Gonzalez,
along with Random as a baseline for comparison [18]. Random selects
𝑘 seeds by uniformly sampling nodes from the network. Given a
partial seed set, Gonzalez selects as the next seed the node that
is the furthest (in the shortest-path metric) from all nodes in the
current set [18]. The Greedy algorithm iteratively selects a new seed
by choosing the node with the highest marginal gain relative to the
current seed set according to ProbEst. Due to its immensely high
computational cost, Greedy is not practical for most networks [18],
and is not used in our study.
In contrast, Myopic uses ProbEst with the current seed set, and
selects as the next seed the node with the lowest𝜋𝑖. Naive Myopic
is similar to Myopic, but only runs ProbEst once, at initialization,
and then selects as the seed set the 𝑘 nodes with the lowest 𝜋𝑖
values. In past work, on a small set of networks, Myopic was found
to perform best. However, because Myopic depends on ProbEst,
it is computationally expensive, which limits its applicability to
large networks. In practice, Myopic is always the second slowest
algorithm, after Greedy [18].
4
--- PAGE 5 ---
Biological Social Economic T echno. Transp. Info.
Gonzalez
Figure 6: Mean performance of the intervention algorithms on each domain in the corpus under medium spreadability. Each
algorithm’s performance is averaged over a given domain, 20 runs per network.
Algorithm Initialization. Myopic, Naive Myopic , and Gonzalez
all start with an initial seed. Past work chose this initial seed to be
the highest degree node. Our initial experiments indicate that this
choice confers a substantial advantage to these methods (Figure 5),
and that some of the previous positive results are thus attributable
to this initial seed choice rather than to the algorithms’ subsequent
choices. To mitigate this bias we instead initialize all heuristics with
a seed set composed of a single uniformly randomly selected initial
seed. Moreover, for each evaluation round on a particular network,
we initialize all algorithms to use the same random seed, which
further controls for the effects of different initial seed choices. This
initial seed choice is not counted against the budget𝑘 (Figure 4).
3.2 New Fast Algorithms
In addition to the four heuristics from prior work, here we introduce
10 new heuristics to maximize the minimum𝜋𝑖 on a budget. These
heuristics are designed to be computationally lightweight, scaling
to far larger networks, while also matching or exceeding the per-
formance of Myopic on the corpus. We group the new algorithms
into three families: BFS-based, PPR-based and Topology-based.
BFS-based: Myopic BFS and Naive Myopic BFS. In the two BFS-
based heuristics, Myopic BFS and Naive Myopic BFS , we swap
the ProbEst component of Myopic and Naive Myopic with a sim-
ple breadth-first search to estimate 𝜋𝑖. The breadth-first search
component is initialized with a random seed𝑘0, and transmission
probability𝛼. It proceeds to “peel” the network, starting at𝑘0, in
breadth-first fashion, estimating𝜋𝑖 for each node as the probability
that𝑖 receives a transmission from𝑘0 through any nodes it connects
to in the previous BFS layer, as well as through nodes it is connected
to in its own layer. All subsequent iterations update existing𝜋𝑖 esti-
mates during the breadth-first traversal from new candidate seeds.
While this approach does not exactly measure 𝜋𝑖, it is much
faster than ProbEst, takingO(𝑛·⟨𝑘⟩) per iteration, because for
most networks, including those in our corpus, the mean degree
⟨𝑘⟩≪ 1000 (Figure 2). The key design principle of this algorithm
is to capture complex network structures that Gonzalez could not
account for. In Figure 4, we find that Myopic BFS almost matches
Myopic’s performance in situations where Gonzalez lags behind.
PPR-based: Myopic PPR and Naive Myopic PPR. In the PPR-based
heuristics, Myopic PPR and Naive Myopic PPR , we use Person-
alized PageRank (PPR) to estimate 𝜋𝑖 instead of ProbEst or BFS.
Personalized PageRank (implemented withnetworkx [25]) performs
a random walk that probabilistically restarts from nodes in the seed
set [9]. The ranking produced by PPR is not a direct estimate of𝜋𝑖;
we treat the PPR values as being correlated, such that a lower PPR
score is a proxy for a lower𝜋𝑖 value.
Topology-based: LeastCentral and MinDegree. These heuristics
are based on the intuition that nodes with low𝜋𝑖 values have distinc-
tive structural positions or patterns of connectivity. LeastCentral
selects the non-seed node 𝑖 with the lowest closeness centrality
𝑐𝑖 as the next seed. Similarly, LeastCentral_n selects the lowest
centrality node𝑖’s highest degree neighbor as the next seed. Here,
the closeness centrality of a node 𝑖 is the inverse of the average
shortest path length from𝑖 to all other reachable nodes in the same
connected component [19, 33]. Lower closeness centrality implies
the node is less reachable by the rest of the network, and therefore
is expected to have lower𝜋𝑖.
The four remaining topology-based heuristics exploit a net-
work’s degree structure to make decisions, based on the observation
that in practice Myopic tends to select nodes with low degree as
seeds. The first two heuristics take a non-seed node with the lowest
degree, breaking ties by choosing the node with the lowest har-
monic centrality [7, 33] among same-degree nodes. In the case of
MinDegree_hc, it chooses that node itself as the next seed, while
MinDegree_hcn chooses the highest-degree neighbor of that node.
The two remaining variations replace harmonic centrality in the
aforementioned logic with the neighbor degree, i.e. breaking ties
by choosing the node with the highest neighbor degree (sum of de-
grees across neighbors). These heuristics are called MinDegree_nd
and MinDegree_ndn, respectively.
4 EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
4.1 Performance of Algorithms on the Corpus
We evaluate and compare the performance of 14 algorithms in
total (10 new algorithms and 4 from prior work), applied to all
174 networks in the corpus. Our code and data are available at
5
--- PAGE 6 ---
Biological Social Economic T echno. Transp. Info.
Gonzalez
Figure 7: Performance of intervention algorithms on the network corpus, relative to Myopic and sorted in ascending order by
network size within each domain. Under medium spreadability, 24% of networks have no algorithm better than or within 80%
of Myopic’s performance. “Equivalent” is defined as within one standard error of 𝛽 for Myopic; typically about 0.001.
https://github.com/TheoryInPractice/FairInfoAccessHeuristics. We
are interested in algorithms that operate well on a tight budget
and so let𝑘∈{ 1, 2,..., 10} seed nodes. For each spreadability level
(low, medium, high), we produce a 10× 14× 174 matrix, where
each entry is the 𝛽 performance of an algorithm after adding 𝑘
seeds in a network, averaged over20 runs. We focus on the medium
spreadability regime here, and include results for low and high
spreadability in Appendix C. Figure 6 displays the mean perfor-
mance of each algorithm on networks by domain under medium
spreadability (see Figure S1 for low and high spreadability results).
Across domains, Myopic produces the best average performance.
To further examine the results, we sort within each domain
by network size in ascending order, and then score algorithms as
better than, “equivalent” to (within one std. err.), within 80% of, or
worse than Myopic (see Figure 7; low and high spreadability results
in Figure S2). In this way, we can assess whether the better average
performance of Myopic applies to individual networks compared
to other algorithms. This experiment reveals that Myopic is not
universally the best algorithm for all networks in any spreadability
setting; on many individual networks other algorithms perform
equivalently or better. In the medium spreadability setting, for only
24% of networks is there no algorithm that performs at least 80% as
well as Myopic (Figure 7).
This variability in performance across networks suggests that
network structure plays a critical role in governing the relative
performance of different algorithms. Figure 8 plots the instances
for which each algorithm was the best performing algorithm on a
network against that network’s mean degree⟨𝑘⟩. Myopic tends to
perform better on networks with lower average degree, although it
also performs well on many networks with larger mean degree. In
practice, we find that the final seed set produced byMyopic is often
composed primarily of low-degree nodes located in a network’s
periphery, and these nodes may be too far removed from other
disadvantaged nodes to meaningfully improve their𝜋𝑖 values.
A second takeaway is that a few specific algorithms tend to per-
form better than Myopic in certain settings (Figure 8), specifically
MinDegree_hcn and Gonzalez. The performance ofMinDegree_hcn
in particular tends to improve over Myopic with increasing aver-
age degree, while Gonzalez does best in networks with very low
mean degrees. Furthermore, we note that in Figure S1a, on average
MinDegree_hcn outperforms Myopic in the economic domain, and
from Table S1, we see that the economic domain has the highest
mean degrees. The MinDegree_hcn algorithm selects as seeds the
highest-degree neighbors of low-degree nodes. As result, new infor-
mation cascades seeded at these nodes will tend to spread quickly
to a number of disadvantaged nodes in the network.
z
Figure 8: Best-performing algorithm vs. mean degree of the
network (medium spreadability), for all networks. Counts
on the right show total circles per line, i.e., the number of
times an algorithm was the best over the whole corpus.
4.2 Algorithm Runtime
We evaluate all algorithm runtimes on the corpus, selecting𝑘 = 10
new seeds, averaged over 10 runs. For fair comparison, we run all
algorithms on a single core of an AMD Ryzen 5900X, overclocked
to 5.00Ghz, with 32GB RAM, and measure the runtime in millisec-
onds. Two major performance bottlenecks are ProbEst, used by
Myopic and Naive Myopic , and an All-Pairs-Shortest-Paths (APSP)
computation, used by Gonzalez, LeastCentral, LeastCentral_n,
MinDegree_hc, and MinDegree_hcn. Both ProbEst and APSP have
efficient parallel implementations, but we restrict them to a single
core to ensure fair comparison with other algorithms.
6
--- PAGE 7 ---
5001000200040007500
number of nodes, n
0.1
1
10
100
1000
10000
100000runtime (milliseconds) Random
Myopic*
Naive Myopic*
Gonzales
LeastCentral
LeastCentral_n
Myopic BFS
Naive Myopic BFS
Myopic PPR
Naive Myopic PPR
MinDegree_hc
MinDegree_hcn
MinDegree_nd
MinDegree_ndn
z
Figure 9: Runtime of old and new algorithms across the
network corpus with𝑘 = 10 seeds averaged over 10 runs,
showing a substantial advantage in running time for the
new algorithms. Note: algorithms with * require ProbEst.
All of the new algorithms are substantially faster than Myopic
and Naive Myopic (Figure 9). Because they only require sorting
two lists, MinDegree_ndn and MinDegree_nd are the most efficient,
improving running times over ProbEst-based algorithms by a fac-
tor of 1000-10000x, depending on the size of the network (Figure 9).
BFS-based algorithms are marginally slower than these fastest algo-
rithms, and algorithms that use an All-Pairs-Shortest-Paths (APSP)
calculation fall between the ProbEst and BFS algorithm groups. As
expected from the asymptotics, BFS algorithms tend to scale more
slowly (in terms of runtime) with network size than do ProbEst
algorithms, while APSP algorithms scale more quickly (Figure 9).
The low upfront cost of APSP-based algorithms makes them far
faster than ProbEst-based algorithms in many practical settings,
being 10-100x faster on networks with less than𝑛 = 106. However,
the asymptotic cost of APSP is cubic in the network size, implying
that for sufficiently large networks, ProbEst will be faster. For our
corpus, we estimate the crossover point when Myopic becomes
more efficient than MinDegree_hc to occur between 1, 262, 000 and
1, 515, 000 nodes (95% CI, from 1000 bootstraps). However, approxi-
mation algorithms for APSP could potentially extend their practical
efficiency much further.
4.3 A Fast Meta-Learning Algorithm
We can exploit the variability in algorithm performance, and the
fact that even among non-Myopic algorithms no alternative is su-
perior on all networks, by introducing a meta-learner algorithm
that combines multiple scalable heuristics to approximate the state-
of-the-art performance of the Myopic algorithm. We compare this
algorithm to a fast ensemble algorithm that uses an oracle to make
perfect predictions about which scalable algorithm is best to apply
on a particular test network, thus providing an upper bound on the
meta-learner’s possible performance.
The meta-learner algorithm leverages the scalability of non-
ProbEst algorithms while retaining good overall performance un-
der all spreadability regimes. The task is as follows: given a partic-
ular network𝐺 and knowledge of the information’s spreadability
Figure 10: Performance difference vs. speedup for the
meta-learner algorithm under medium spreadability, with
marginal histograms, averaged over 1000 runs. Extreme
outliers have been removed for visualization purposes.
Average performance difference relative to Myopic is
−20.11%± 29.34 (mean± stddev), for an average speedup
factor of 76.28± 64.07. For 34 of the networks (19.8%) the
meta-learner strictly outperforms Myopic.
(low, medium, or high), select the scalable algorithm with the best
marginal benefit𝛽 for improving information access.
As shown previously, many of the heuristics do not perform
well, and so we begin by narrowing the set of available algorithms.
For each of the three spreadability settings, we select the setX of
five algorithms (excluding Myopic and Naive Myopic ) that maxi-
mize the number of networks for which at least one among the set
performs at least 80% as well as Myopic. This produces sets
• Xhigh ={Gonzales, LeastCentral, Myopic BFS,
Naive Myopic BFS , MinDegree_hc}
• Xmedium ={Gonzales, Myopic BFS, Myopic PPR,
MinDegree_hc, MinDegree_hcn}
• Xlow ={Gonzalez, Myopic BFS, Myopic PPR,
MinDegree_hcn, MinDegree_ndn}
For the meta-learner algorithm, we then learn a 5-way random
forest classifier to predict the best algorithm in X to apply to a
given network, using nine of the network’s topological features as
the feature set (Figure S5). We train and evaluate the meta-learner
approach using an 80-20 train-test split among networks in the
corpus, with meta-learner algorithm selection and model training
both performed on the training set, and we report the mean perfor-
mance over the test set. The meta-learner’s runtime is the runtime
of the trained model and the single algorithm it selects.
In the fast ensemble algorithm, for a given network in the corpus,
the oracle runs all algorithms inX and evaluates the performance
of each using ProbEst to calculate their respective 𝛽s, and then
returns the single algorithm with the highest𝛽 for that network.
In this way, the oracle acts like an optimal classifier over X (cf.
the meta-learner algorithm). The runtime of the fast ensemble
algorithm is simply that of the single algorithm it selects.
Compared to Myopic, the meta-learner is dramatically more effi-
cient, with an average runtime that is76.26±64.07 times faster under
medium spreadability (Figure 10) and133.35± 79.32 times faster un-
der high spreadability (Figure S7). Improvement in scalability comes
7
--- PAGE 8 ---
with a modest cost to performance, such that the meta-learner pro-
duces𝛽 values that are, on average,20.11%± 29.34 lower than those
of Myopic under medium spreadability (with similar results for
high); we note that the wide variance in these numbers reflects the
broad range of difficulty across networks in the corpus. In contrast,
the fast ensemble algorithm’s performance is only 9.34%± 28.34
lower for medium spreadability (similar results for high), indicat-
ing both room for improvement by the meta-learner with a better
feature set as well as an upper limit to that improvement with the
current scalable algorithms. We note, however, that lower perfor-
mance is not universal: for 34 and 22 networks (20% and 12.8%), the
meta-learner outperforms Myopic on medium and high spreadabil-
ity, respectively (Figs. 10 and S7). Under low spreadability, the fast
meta-learner’s average performance generally exceeds Myopic be-
cause of the inherent precision limitation ofProbEst in this setting.
4.4 Scaling to Larger Networks
In this section, we verify that our methods remain much faster than
Myopic even on much larger networks. We consider two networks,
Email Network (EU Research Institution) (which we shorten to
Email (EU)) and Google+ (2013). These have∼ 34 thousand and∼ 87
thousand nodes, respectively; other summary statistics are reported
in Table S2. On these networks, we evaluate Myopic against the
five algorithms inXhigh, as defined in Section 4.3: Gonzales, Least
Central, Myopic BFS , Naive Myopic , BFS, and MinDegree_hc.
We use high-spreadability 𝛼 values. We ran these experiments
on identical hardware equipped with 40 physical cores (Intel(R)
Xeon(R) Gold 6230 CPU @ 2.10 GHz) and 19100 MB of RAM. As
with the smaller networks, the budgets tested are𝑘∈{ 1, 2,..., 10}.
We change several parameters from our previous runs so that our
experiments are better suited to the size of these networks. After
initial experiments with the number of Monte Carlo simulations
in ProbEst set to𝑅 = 1000, it became clear that 1000 simulation
rounds was not enough for networks with tens of thousands of
nodes, as some of our evaluations produced a negative𝛽. With ex-
act probability computations,𝜋min would monotonically increase
with each seed added, so𝛽 < 0 indicates highly inaccurate estima-
tions. Thus, we increase the number of Monte Carlo simulations
to 𝑅 = 10000 in order to better estimate 𝜋𝑖 for large networks.
However, due to the increase in simulation rounds and network
size, running ProbEst to evaluate the algorithms’ performances is
extremely expensive. To balance between computation time and
a thorough analysis, we run only 3 trials of our algorithms with
high-spreadability𝛼 values. We also use only 1000 simulations
when executing the spreadability computations (recall Section 2.2)
to select the appropriate𝛼. We note that calculating the target𝛼
would have required approximately 30 days of compute time for
Google+ (2013) with 𝑅 = 10000. After using 1000 simulations to
complete the spreadability computations, we tested the selected
𝛼 values with𝑅 = 10000, verifying that they activate on average
78.9% and 79.4% of Email (EU) and Google+ (2013), respectively,
which is quite close to the target activation percentage of 80%.
As with the broader corpus, when evaluated on the two larger
networks, the five representative algorithms from Xhigh are or-
ders of magnitude faster than Myopic, with some of the algorithms
maintaining seed choice quality comparable to Myopic. Indeed, the
Figure 11: Runtime of Myopic and the algorithms ofXhigh on
five social networks of various sizes under high
spreadability: Norwegian Board of Directors (2006),
Amherst41, ca-HepTh-snap, Email (EU), and Google + (2013).
Numbers in the plot indicate how much slower Myopic is
than the second-slowest algorithm for that network.
slowest of the algorithms fromXhigh is 135 times faster than Myopic
on Email (EU), and 96 times faster on Google+ (2013). These results
(see Figure 11) indicate that the running time advantage of our meth-
ods over Myopic is not diminished on networks much larger than
those in the corpus of Section 2.1. Moreover, the performance loss of
our methods (relative to Myopic) is similar (though slightly greater)
to that observed for the larger corpus; see Figure S10 in Appendix D.
5 DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION
We evaluate new and existing algorithms, and introduce a meta-
learning method for choosing𝑘 seed nodes to maximize the mini-
mum access probability𝜋𝑖 of a node in a network. The meta-learner
achieves a large (75x) speedup over the existing state-of-the-art,
with a modest decrease in performance over a large corpus of net-
works. The previous Monte Carlo method for calculating a node’s
information access has high computational costs that limit the ap-
plicability of algorithms that rely on it, while the algorithms we
introduced here scale-up to much larger networks.
To evaluate the algorithms, we introduce a large cross-domain
network corpus, and a new performance metric𝛽. We also introduce
the concept of spreadability on a network to choose the independent
cascade activation probability𝛼, accounting for the influence of a
network’s structural features on information spread.
Our findings have implications for the design of intervention
strategies that aim to improve information access of the disad-
vantaged individuals in a network. This work suggests that the
structure of the network plays a significant role in the performance
of the algorithms, with average degree being a particularly impor-
tant factor. The introduction of an ensemble method based on fast
algorithms that do not rely on Monte Carlo simulation also leaves
open the incorporation of future lightweight algorithms.
8
--- PAGE 9 ---
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
The authors thank Daniel B. Larremore and Zachary Kilpatrick
for helpful feedback, and they acknowledge the BioFrontiers IT
group at the University of Colorado Boulder for their support with
data storage infrastructure, data management services, and High
Performance Computing resources.
FUNDING
This work was supported in part by National Science Foundation
Awards IIS 1956183 (DRW, CJW, AC), IIS 1956286 (ACr, MW, FS,
BS), and IIS 1955321 (SF).
REFERENCES
[1] Junaid Ali, Mahmoudreza Babaei, Abhijnan Chakraborty, Baharan Mirza-
soleiman, Krishna P Gummadi, and Adish Singla. On the fairness of time-critical
influence maximization in social networks. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and
Data Engineering, 35(3):2875–2886, 2021.
[2] Abhijit Banerjee, Arun G Chandrasekhar, Esther Duflo, and Matthew O Jackson.
The diffusion of microfinance. Science, 341(6144):1236498, 2013.
[3] Ashkan Bashardoust, Hannah C Beilinson, Sorelle A Friedler, Jiajie Ma, Jade
Rousseau, Carlos E Scheidegger, Blair D Sullivan, Nasanbayar Ulzii-Orshikh,
and Suresh Venkatasubramanian. Information access representations and social
capital in networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.12611, 2020.
[4] Ashkan Bashardoust, Sorelle Friedler, Carlos Scheidegger, Blair D Sullivan, and
Suresh Venkatasubramanian. Reducing access disparities in networks using
edge augmentation. In Proceedings of the 2023 ACM Conference on Fairness,
Accountability, and Transparency, pages 1635–1651, 2023.
[5] Ruben Becker, Gianlorenzo D’Angelo, and Sajjad Ghobadi. Improving fairness
in information exposure by adding links. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference
on Artificial Intelligence, volume 37, pages 14119–14126, 2023.
[6] Aditya Bhaskara, Alex Crane, Md Mumtahin Habib Ullah Mazumder, Blair D
Sullivan, and Prasanth Yalamanchili. Optimizing information access in networks
via edge augmentation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.02624, 2024.
[7] Paolo Boldi and Sebastiano Vigna. Axioms for centrality, 2013.
[8] Christian Borgs, Michael Brautbar, Jennifer Chayes, and Brendan Lucier. Maxi-
mizing social influence in nearly optimal time. In Proceedings of the twenty-fifth
annual ACM-SIAM symposium on Discrete algorithms, pages 946–957. SIAM, 2014.
[9] S. Brin and L. Page. The anatomy of a large-scale hypertextual web search engine.
Comput. Netw., 30:107–117, 1998.
[10] Simon Caton and Christian Haas. Fairness in machine learning: A survey. ACM
Computing Surveys, 56(7):1–38, 2024.
[11] Wei Chen, Chi Wang, and Yajun Wang. Scalable influence maximization for
prevalent viral marketing in large-scale social networks. In Proceedings of the
16th ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data
mining, pages 1029–1038, 2010.
[12] Cecilia Cheng, Hsin-Yi Wang, Leif Sigerson, and Chor-Lam Chau. Do the socially
rich get richer? a nuanced perspective on social network site use and online
social capital accrual. Psychological Bulletin, 145(7):734–764, 2019.
[13] Flavio Chierichetti, Ravi Kumar, Silvio Lattanzi, and Sergei Vassilvitskii. Fair
clustering through fairlets. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems
30: Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems 2017, December
4-9, 2017, Long Beach, CA, USA , pages 5029–5037, 2017.
[14] Aaron Clauset, Ellen Tucker, and Matthias Sainz. The colorado index of complex
networks. https://icon.colorado.edu/, 2016.
[15] Pedro Domingos and Matt Richardson. Mining the network value of customers.
In Proceedings of the seventh ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge
discovery and data mining , pages 57–66, 2001.
[16] Cynthia Dwork, Moritz Hardt, Toniann Pitassi, Omer Reingold, and Richard
Zemel. Fairness through awareness. In Proceedings of the 3rd innovations in
theoretical computer science conference , pages 214–226, 2012.
[17] Michael Feldman, Sorelle A Friedler, John Moeller, Carlos Scheidegger, and Suresh
Venkatasubramanian. Certifying and removing disparate impact. In proceedings
of the 21th ACM SIGKDD international conference on knowledge discovery and
data mining, pages 259–268, 2015.
[18] Benjamin Fish, Ashkan Bashardoust, Danah Boyd, Sorelle Friedler, Carlos Schei-
degger, and Suresh Venkatasubramanian. Gaps in information access in social
networks? In The World Wide Web Conference, WWW ’19. ACM, May 2019.
[19] Linton C. Freeman. Centrality in social networks conceptual clarification. Social
Networks, 1(3):215–239, 1978.
[20] Joshua P. Garoon and Patrick S. Duggan. Discourses of disease, discourses of
disadvantage: A critical analysis of national pandemic influenza preparedness
plans. Social Science & Medicine , 67(7):1133–1142, 2008.
[21] Amir Ghasemian, Homa Hosseinmardi, and Aaron Clauset. Evaluating overfit
and underfit in models of network community structure. IEEE Transactions on
Knowledge and Data Engineering , 32:1722–1735, 2019.
[22] Jacob Goldenberg, Barak Libai, and Eitan Muller. Talk of the network: A complex
systems look at the underlying process of word-of-mouth. Marketing Letters,
2001.
[23] M. Granovetter. Threshold models of collective behavior. The American Journal
of Sociology, 83(6):1420–1443, 1978.
[24] Mark S. Granovetter. The strength of weak ties. American Journal of Sociology,
78(6):1360–1380, 1973.
[25] Aric A. Hagberg, Daniel A. Schult, and Pieter J. Swart. Exploring network
structure, dynamics, and function using networkx. In Gaël Varoquaux, Travis
Vaught, and Jarrod Millman, editors, Proceedings of the 7th Python in Science
Conference, pages 11 – 15, Pasadena, CA USA, 2008.
[26] Moritz Hardt, Eric Price, and Nati Srebro. Equality of opportunity in supervised
learning. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 30:3323 – 3331,
2016.
[27] Keke Huang, Sibo Wang, Glenn Bevilacqua, Xiaokui Xiao, and Laks VS Laksh-
manan. Revisiting the stop-and-stare algorithms for influence maximization.
Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment , 10(9):913–924, 2017.
[28] K. Ikehara and A. Clauset. Characterizing the structural diversity of complex
networks across domains, 2017.
[29] Zeinab S Jalali, Qilan Chen, Shwetha M Srikanta, Weixiang Wang, Myunghwan
Kim, Hema Raghavan, and Sucheta Soundarajan. Fairness of information flow in
social networks. ACM Transactions on Knowledge Discovery from Data, 17(6):1–26,
2023.
[30] David Kempe, Jon Kleinberg, and Éva Tardos. Maximizing the spread of influence
through a social network. In Proceedings of the Ninth ACM SIGKDD International
Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , KDD ’03, page 137–146.
Association for Computing Machinery, 2003.
[31] Jure Leskovec, Andreas Krause, Carlos Guestrin, Christos Faloutsos, Jeanne
VanBriesen, and Natalie Glance. Cost-effective outbreak detection in networks.
In Proceedings of the 13th ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge
discovery and data mining , pages 420–429, 2007.
[32] Anay Mehrotra, Jeff Sachs, and L Elisa Celis. Revisiting group fairness metrics:
The effect of networks. Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction ,
6(CSCW2):1–29, 2022.
[33] M. E. J. Newman. Networks. Oxford University Press, Oxford, UK, 2nd edition,
2018.
[34] Hung T Nguyen, My T Thai, and Thang N Dinh. Stop-and-stare: Optimal
sampling algorithms for viral marketing in billion-scale networks. In Proceedings
of the 2016 international conference on management of data , pages 695–710, 2016.
[35] Naoto Ohsaka. The solution distribution of influence maximization: A high-level
experimental study on three algorithmic approaches. In Proceedings of the 2020
ACM SIGMOD international conference on management of data , pages 2151–2166,
2020.
[36] Tiago P. Peixoto. The netzschleuder network catalogue and repository. https:
//doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.7839981, 2020.
[37] Dana Pessach and Erez Shmueli. A review on fairness in machine learning. ACM
Computing Surveys (CSUR), 55(3):1–44, 2022.
[38] Pierre M. Picard and Yves Zenou. Urban spatial structure, employment and social
ties. Journal of Urban Economics , 104:77–93, 2018.
[39] John Rawls. A Theory of Justice . Harvard University Press, 2009.
[40] Matthew Richardson and Pedro Domingos. Mining knowledge-sharing sites
for viral marketing. In Proceedings of the eighth ACM SIGKDD international
conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining , pages 61–70, 2002.
[41] Everett M Rogers, Arvind Singhal, and Margaret M Quinlan. Diffusion of inno-
vations. In An integrated approach to communication theory and research , pages
432–448. Routledge, 2014.
[42] Akrati Saxena, George Fletcher, and Mykola Pechenizkiy. Fairsna: Algorithmic
fairness in social network analysis. ACM Computing Surveys, 56(8):1–45, 2024.
[43] Ana-Andreea Stoica and Augustin Chaintreau. Fairness in social influence
maximization. In Companion Proceedings of The 2019 World Wide Web Conference,
pages 569–574, 2019.
[44] Ana-Andreea Stoica, Jessy Xinyi Han, and Augustin Chaintreau. Seeding network
influence in biased networks and the benefits of diversity. In Proceedings of The
Web Conference 2020, pages 2089–2098, 2020.
[45] Ana-Andreea Stoica, Christopher Riederer, and Augustin Chaintreau. Algorith-
mic glass ceiling in social networks: The effects of social recommendations on
network diversity. In Proceedings of the 2018 World Wide Web Conference , pages
923–932, 2018.
[46] Youze Tang, Yanchen Shi, and Xiaokui Xiao. Influence maximization in near-
linear time: A martingale approach. In Proceedings of the 2015 ACM SIGMOD
international conference on management of data , pages 1539–1554, 2015.
[47] Youze Tang, Xiaokui Xiao, and Yanchen Shi. Influence maximization: Near-
optimal time complexity meets practical efficiency. In Proceedings of the 2014
ACM SIGMOD international conference on Management of data , pages 75–86,
9
--- PAGE 10 ---
2014.
[48] Alan Tsang, Bryan Wilder, Eric Rice, Milind Tambe, and Yair Zick. Group-fairness
in influence maximization. In Proceedings of the Twenty-Eighth International
Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence, IJCAI 2019, Macao, China, August 10-16,
2019, pages 5997–6005, 2019.
[49] Gergely Tóth, Johannes Wachs, Riccardo Di Clemente, and Jari Saramäki. In-
equality is rising where social network segregation interacts with urban topology.
Nature Communications, 12(1):1143, 2021.
[50] Dashun Wang and Brian Uzzi. Weak ties, failed tries, and success. Science,
377(6612):1256–1258, 2022.
[51] Amulya Yadav, Hau Chan, Albert Xin Jiang, Haifeng Xu, Eric Rice, and Milind
Tambe. Using social networks to aid homeless shelters: Dynamic influence
maximization under uncertainty. In AAMAS, volume 16, pages 740–748, 2016.
10
--- PAGE 11 ---
A NETWORK CORPUS
Summary statistics for the network corpus can be found in Table S1.
B PSEUDOCODE FOR ALGORITHMS
For completeness, here we provide pseudocode for all 10 new al-
gorithms, along with high-level descriptions. We also describe the
ensemble and meta-learner approaches.
Algorithm 1: Myopic BFS
Approximates𝜋𝑖 values by performing BFS traversal from the most
recent seed and computing 𝜋𝑖 activation probabilities for every
node in the network, taking into account only its “parents” and
“neighbors. ” For a node𝑥 at distance𝑡 from the seed, a “parent” is
any node at distance𝑡− 1 from the seed that shares an edge with
𝑥, and a “neighbor” is any node at distance𝑡 that shares an edge
with𝑥. When adding a new seed, update the old probabilities with
a new BFS traversal.
Algorithm 1: Myopic BFS
Input : 𝐺 =(𝑉,𝐸),𝑠,𝛼 .
Output :𝑆⊆𝑉 with|𝑆| =𝑠+ 1.
// Initialize 𝑆 with a random node.
1 𝑆 ={𝑠0∈𝑅𝑉}
2 while|𝑆|≤ 𝑠 do
3 𝑄←𝑆[−1]
// initialize queue with latest seed
4 while|𝑄| < 0 do
5 Perform BFS traversal and record distance𝑡 to𝑆[−1]
for every node
6 for𝑣∈𝑉 do
7 Approximate access probability𝜋𝑖∀𝑣∈𝑉 // see
the writeup earlier for more info
// Choose the node with min. activation prob.
8 𝑥 = argmin𝑣∈𝑉\𝑆 Prob(𝑣)
9 𝑆 =𝑆∪{𝑥}
10 return𝑆
Algorithm 2: Naive Myopic BFS
Approximates𝜋𝑖 values in the same way as Myopic BFS . Reuses
the approximations from the first traversal when adding each sub-
sequent seed.
Algorithm 3: Myopic PPR
Choose an initial seed node uniformly at random. Then, for each
new seed, perform a pass of Personalized Page Rank, with per-
sonalization parameter set to bias random walk restarts from the
current seed set. Sort the nodes by PPR in ascending order, choose
𝑠 lowest-scoring nodes as new seeds.
Algorithm 4: Naive Myopic PPR
Choose an initial seed node uniformly at random. Then, perform a
pass of Personalized Page Rank, with personalization parameter set
Algorithm 2: Naive Myopic BFS
Input : 𝐺 =(𝑉,𝐸),𝑠 .
Output :𝑆⊆𝑉 with|𝑆| =𝑠+ 1.
// Initialize 𝑆 with a random node.
1 𝑆 ={𝑠0∈𝑅𝑉}
2 𝑄←𝑆[−1]
// initialize queue with first random seed
3 while|𝑄| < 0 do
4 Perform BFS traversal and record distance𝑡 to𝑆[−1] for
every node
5 for𝑣∈𝑉 do
6 Approximate access probability𝜋𝑖∀𝑣∈𝑉 // see the
writeup earlier for more info
// Choose 𝑠 nodes with min. activation prob.
7 while|𝑆|≤ 𝑠 do
8 𝑥 = argmin𝑣∈𝑉\𝑆 Prob(𝑣)
9 𝑆 =𝑆∪{𝑥}
10 return𝑆
Algorithm 3: Myopic PPR
Input : 𝐺 =(𝑉,𝐸),𝑠 .
Output :𝑆⊆𝑉 with|𝑆| =𝑠+ 1.
// Initialize 𝑆 with a random node.
1 𝑆 ={𝑠0∈𝑅𝑉}
2 while|𝑆|≤ 𝑠 do
3 𝑥 = argmin𝑣∈𝑉\𝑆 PPR(𝑣,𝑆)
4 𝑆 =𝑆∪{𝑥}
5 return𝑆
to bias random walk restarts from the initial random seed. Sort the
nodes by PPR in ascending order, choose𝑠 lowest-scoring nodes as
new seeds.
Algorithm 4: Naive Myopic PPR
Input : 𝐺 =(𝑉,𝐸),𝑠 .
Output :𝑆⊆𝑉 with|𝑆| =𝑠+ 1.
// Initialize 𝑆 with a random node.
1 𝑆 ={𝑠0∈𝑅𝑉}
// Sort the nodes by ascending PPR
2 𝑣1,𝑣 2,...,𝑣 𝑛 = PPR(𝐺,𝑆)
3 𝑆 =𝑆∪{𝑣1,𝑣 2,...𝑣 𝑠}
4 return𝑆
Algorithm 5: LeastCentral
Choose an initial seed node uniformly at random. Then choose the
node with the lowest closeness centrality as the new seed.
11
--- PAGE 12 ---
net. count ⟨𝑛⟩ ⟨𝑚⟩ ⟨𝑘⟩ ⟨𝐶⟩ ⟨ℓmax⟩ ⟨𝜎2⟩
full corpus 174 1495.42 26288.68 22.60 0.24 13.79 1997.12
biological 34 927.50 2830.24 7.00 0.08 11.59 285.87
social 44 1647.75 29055.57 28.11 0.42 11.02 1099.06
economic 43 2367.40 71946.23 51.97 0.38 7.19 6647.82
technological 32 843.13 1651.50 4.07 0.07 17.84 69.55
transportation 17 1243.65 2148.53 3.80 0.10 35.76 37.79
informational 4 1561.75 4124.25 6.41 0.11 8.00 174.06
Table S1: Summary statistics of the network corpus used to evaluate algorithms for the Information Access Gap Minimization
problem, showing the number of networks by scientific domain, along with the average number of nodes ⟨𝑛⟩, average number
of edges⟨𝑚⟩, average degree⟨𝑘⟩, average clustering coefficient (transitivity)⟨𝐶⟩, average diameter⟨ℓmax⟩, and average variance
of the degree distribution⟨𝜎2⟩ for networks in that domain.
Algorithm 5: LeastCentral
Input : 𝐺 =(𝑉,𝐸),𝑠 .
Output :𝑆⊆𝑉 with|𝑆| =𝑠+ 1.
// Initialize 𝑆 with a random node.
1 𝑆 ={𝑠0∈𝑅𝑉}
2 while|𝑆|≤ 𝑠 do
// Choose node with min. Close. Centrality
3 𝑥 = argmin𝑣∈𝑉\𝑆 CC(𝑣)
4 𝑆 =𝑆∪{𝑥}
5 return𝑆
Algorithm 6: LeastCentral_n
Choose an initial seed node uniformly at random. Then choose a
node with the smallest closeness centrality and select that node’s
highest-degree neighbor to be the next seed.
Algorithm 6: LeastCentral_n
Input : 𝐺 =(𝑉,𝐸),𝑠 .
Output :𝑆⊆𝑉 with|𝑆| =𝑠+ 1.
// Initialize 𝑆 with a random node.
1 𝑆 ={𝑠0∈𝑅𝑉}
2 while|𝑆|≤ 𝑠 do
// Choose node with min. Close. Centrality
3 𝑥 = argmin𝑣∈𝑉\𝑆 CC(𝑣)
// Choose the highest degree neighbor.
4 𝑦 = argmax𝑣∈𝑁(𝑥)𝑑(𝑣)
5 𝑆 =𝑆∪{𝑦}
6 return𝑆
Algorithm 7: MinDegree_hc
Choose an initial seed node uniformly at random. Then, identify all
minimum degree nodes, and sort by harmonic centrality. Finally,
choose the node with the lowest harmonic centrality as the new
seed.
Algorithm 7: MinDegree_hc
Input : 𝐺 =(𝑉,𝐸),𝑠 .
Output :𝑆⊆𝑉 with|𝑆| =𝑠+ 1.
// Initialize 𝑆 with a random node.
1 𝑆 ={𝑠0∈𝑅𝑉}
2 while|𝑆|≤ 𝑠 do
// Choose nodes with min. degree.
3 𝑉′ ={𝑣∈𝑉\𝑆 :𝑑(𝑤)≥ 𝑑(𝑣)∀𝑤∈𝑉\𝑆}
// Choose node with min. Harm. Centrality.
4 𝑥 = argmin𝑣∈𝑉′ HC(𝑣)
5 𝑆 =𝑆∪{𝑥}
6 return𝑆
Algorithm 8: MinDegree_hcn
Choose an initial seed node uniformly at random. Then, identify all
minimum degree nodes, and sort by harmonic centrality. Finally,
choose the highest-degree neighbor of the node with the lowest
harmonic centrality as the new seed.
Algorithm 8: MinDegree_hcn
Input : 𝐺 =(𝑉,𝐸),𝑠 .
Output :𝑆⊆𝑉 with|𝑆| =𝑠+ 1.
// Initialize 𝑆 with a random node.
1 𝑆 ={𝑠0∈𝑅𝑉}
2 while|𝑆|≤ 𝑠 do
// Choose nodes with min. degree.
3 𝑉′ ={𝑣∈𝑉\𝑆 :𝑑(𝑤)≥ 𝑑(𝑣)∀𝑤∈𝑉\𝑆}
// Choose node with min. Harm. Centrality.
4 𝑥 = argmin𝑣∈𝑉′ HC(𝑣)
// Choose highest degree neighbor.
5 𝑦 = argmax𝑣∈𝑁(𝑥)𝑑(𝑣)
6 𝑆 =𝑆∪{𝑦}
7 return𝑆
12
--- PAGE 13 ---
Algorithm 9: MinDegree_nd
Choose an initial seed node uniformly at random. Then, identify
all minimum degree nodes, and sort by neighbor degree. Choose
the node with the highest-degree neighbor as the new seed.
Algorithm 9: MinDegree_nd
Input : 𝐺 =(𝑉,𝐸),𝑠 .
Output :𝑆⊆𝑉 with|𝑆| =𝑠+ 1.
// Initialize 𝑆 with a random node.
1 𝑆 ={𝑠0∈𝑅𝑉}
2 while|𝑆|≤ 𝑠 do
// Choose nodes with min. degree.
3 𝑉′ ={𝑣∈𝑉\𝑆 :𝑑(𝑤)≥ 𝑑(𝑣)∀𝑤∈𝑉\𝑆}
// Choose node with highest neigh. degree.
4 𝑥 = argmax𝑣∈𝑉′
˝
𝑤∈𝑁(𝑣)𝑑(𝑤)
5 𝑆 =𝑆∪{𝑥}
6 return𝑆
Algorithm 10: MinDegree_ndn
Choose an initial seed node uniformly at random. Then, identify
all minimum degree nodes, and sort by neighbor degree. For the
node with the highest-degree neighbor, choose the highest-degree
neighbor itself as the new seed.
Algorithm 10: MinDegree_ndn
Input : 𝐺 =(𝑉,𝐸),𝑠 .
Output :𝑆⊆𝑉 with|𝑆| =𝑠+ 1.
// Initialize 𝑆 with a random node.
1 𝑆 ={𝑠0∈𝑅𝑉}
2 while|𝑆|≤ 𝑠 do
// Choose nodes with min. degree.
3 𝑉′ ={𝑣∈𝑉\𝑆 :𝑑(𝑤)≥ 𝑑(𝑣)∀𝑤∈𝑉\𝑆}
// Choose node with highest neigh. degree.
4 𝑥 = argmax𝑣∈𝑉′
˝
𝑤∈𝑁(𝑣)𝑑(𝑤)
// Choose highest degree neighbor.
5 𝑦 = argmax𝑣∈𝑁(𝑥)𝑑(𝑣)
6 𝑆 =𝑆∪{𝑦}
7 return𝑆
Algorithm 11: Fast Ensemble (Oracle)
Select five members of 𝐷, an ensemble of algorithms. To do so,
perform greedy search for a set of five algorithms that attain≥ 80%
of Myopic’s performance on the network corpus, as evaluated by
ProbEst. Then, for each new network, select the algorithm that
performs best as suggested by the oracle, and apply it.
Algorithm 11: Fast Ensemble (Oracle)
Input : 𝐺 =(𝑉,𝐸),𝑠 .
Output :𝑆⊆𝑉 with|𝑆| =𝑠+ 1.
1 Initialize𝑆 with a random node.
2 𝑆 ={𝑠0∈𝑅𝑉}
3 Select𝑎1,𝑎 2,𝑎 3,𝑎 4,𝑎 5 to maximize number of networks in
the corpus for which performance of some𝑎𝑖 is≥ 80% of
Myopic
4 𝐷←{𝑎1,𝑎 2,𝑎 3,𝑎 4,𝑎 5}
// Ask the oracle 𝑂 which algorithm to use
5 𝑎best←𝑂(𝐺,𝐷)
// Run the algorithm to get 𝑆
6 𝑆 =𝑆∪𝑎best(𝐺,𝑠)
7 return𝑆
Algorithm 12: Meta-learner
Select five members of 𝐷, an ensemble of algorithms. To do so,
perform greedy search for a set of five algorithms that attain ≥
80% of Myopic’s performance on the network corpus, as evaluated
by ProbEst. Using prior network corpus data, train a model 𝑀
that, given a new network 𝐺, selects the best algorithm out of
the ensemble based on topological features. Apply the selected
algorithm to𝐺.
Algorithm 12: Meta-learner
Input : 𝐺 =(𝑉,𝐸),𝑠 .
Output :𝑆⊆𝑉 with|𝑆| =𝑠+ 1.
1 Initialize𝑆 with a random node.
2 𝑆 ={𝑠0∈𝑅𝑉}
3 Select𝑎1,𝑎 2,𝑎 3,𝑎 4,𝑎 5 to maximize number of networks in
the corpus for which performance of some𝑎𝑖 is≥ 80% of
Myopic
4 𝐷←{𝑎1,𝑎 2,𝑎 3,𝑎 4,𝑎 5}
5 Train Random Forest Classifier𝑀 to select the best
algorithm from𝐷 based on network topology, using data
from the network corpus
// Ask 𝑀 which algorithm to use
6 𝑎best←𝑀(𝐺,𝐷)
// Run the algorithm to get 𝑆
7 𝑆 =𝑆∪𝑎best(𝐺,𝑠)
8 return𝑆
13
--- PAGE 14 ---
 
0.000
0.001
0.002
0.003
0.004
0.005
0.006
Biological
 
Social
 
Economic
 
T echnological
 
Transportation
 
Informational
average slope, 
(a)
Gonzalez
(b)
Figure S1: Mean performance of the intervention algorithms on each domain in the corpus, under (a) low spreadability and (b)
high spreadability settings. Medium spreadability results are given in Figure 6.
Biological Social Economic T echno. Transp. Info.
z
(a)
z
(b)
Figure S2: Performance of intervention algorithms on the network corpus, relative to Myopic and sorted in ascending order by
network size within each domain. (a): low spreadability, 12% of networks have no algorithm better than or within 80% of
Myopic’s performance; (b): high spreadability, showing very similar results to medium spreadability (Figure 7). “Equivalent”
defined as within one standard error of 𝛽 for Myopic; typically about 0.001.
C SUPPLEMENTARY RESULTS
Algorithm performance for low and high spreadability. Figure S1
shows the mean performance𝛽 of all the algorithms applied to all
14
--- PAGE 15 ---
z
Figure S3: Best-performing algorithm on a network vs
average degree of the network under low spreadability. Each
network’s corresponding single most-performant algorithm
is plotted with a circle. Total number of circles per line is
given on the right-hand side, indicating how many times an
algorithm was the best-performing one across the entire
corpus.
the networks in the corpus, grouped into the six network domains:
biological, social, economic, technological, transportation, and in-
formational, for low and high spreadability settings. We observe
qualitatively similar results across spreadability settings, in which
Myopic is often on average the best performing algorithm. How-
ever, the relative ordering of other algorithms varies substantially
across domains and spreadability settings.
Figure S2 expands on these results (following the experimental
steps in the main text), showing for the low and high spreadability
settings the performance of each algorithm relative to the perfor-
mance of Myopic. Notably, in the low spreadability setting, many
more algorithms fall into the “equivalent” category, in which their
performance is statistically indistinguisable from Myopic (𝛽 within
one standard error). This behavior is due to the low precision of
ProbEst in this setting. We find many fewer cases of equivalence
in the high spreadability setting, which is qualitatively similar to
the results in the medium setting, in which across networks, many
alternatives perform similarly as Myopic, and in some cases outper-
form Myopic. These results reinforce the finding that generally no
algorithm is superior to others across networks and spreadability
settings.
Figures S3 and S4 tabulate the counts of how often a particular
algorithm was the best performing (highest 𝛽) and plot them as
a function of network mean degree⟨𝑘⟩, for low and high spread-
ability, respectively. Here we see clearly that Myopic is by far the
best algorithm in high spreadability (similar to results for medium,
shown in Figure 8), but is much less so under low spreadability. We
believe this difference is attributable to the imprecision of ProbEst
in the low spreadability setting.
Meta-learner. To construct the meta-learner, we trained a model
to predict which algorithm would perform best on a given network,
given only the network’s features and the spreadability of the infor-
mation in the Independent Cascade model. For this task, we held out
z
Figure S4: Best-performing algorithm on a network vs
average degree of the network under high spreadability.
Each network’s corresponding single most-performant
algorithm is plotted with a circle. Total number of circles
per line is given on the right-hand side, indicating how
many times an algorithm was the best-performing one
across the entire corpus.
domain
number_nodesnumber_edgesavg_degreemax_degree
degree_variance
transitivity
avg_shortest_path
diameterassortativity
feature
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.10
0.12
0.14
0.16mean decr. in impurity
Figure S5: Meta-learner random forest feature importance
for predicting which of five algorithms is the best choice for
a given network. Higher values mean a feature contributes
more to the predicted performance value.
Myopic and Naive Myopic , as the goal is to approximate their state-
of-the-art performance using more scalable algorithms. Network
features used are: the network domain, number of nodes𝑛, average
degree⟨𝑘⟩, maximum degree𝑘max, degree variance𝜎2, clustering
coefficient𝐶, average shortest path⟨ℓ⟩, diameterℓmax, and degree
assortativity𝑟. We use this approach rather than a representation
learning approach to ensure better interpretability of what aspects
of network structure influence performance predictability.
This multi-class classification task is challenging. Fine-tuned
models come out with an accuracy of ≈ 0.51. Figs. S5 and S6
show the learned feature importances and confusion matrix for
the medium spreadability setting (similar results for low and high
spreadability models). However, generally, incorrect algorithm choices
by the model tend to select an alternative that is almost as good
15
--- PAGE 16 ---
z
Figure S6: Confusion matrix of the best algorithm
prediction model for the meta-learner.
as the true best, in terms of performance 𝛽, and so classification
errors often do not translate into large losses in performance.
From the classification task, we find that the domain of a net-
work contributes the least to the prediction accuracy, followed by
number of nodes 𝑛. Other network features are roughly equally
important (Figure S5). This result implies that network domain does
not contribute much marginal information beyond a network’s fea-
tures, as has been found previously by Ikehara and Clauset [ 28].
That is, network features encode much the same information as
network domain.
The accuracy of the meta-learning model under medium and
high spreadability (Figs. 10 and S7) are similar, but with slightly
larger performance loss and substantially larger runtime speedup
in the case of high, than in medium.
Unsurprisingly, the fast ensemble algorithms (which use an ora-
cle to choose the best heuristic for a given network) in both medium
and high spreadability settings outperform the meta-learner. How-
ever, the gap between fast ensemble and meta-learning is only
about 10-20%, indicating that while there is room for improvement
in the meta-learner’s classifier, the optimal performance is not far
off. Moreover, the fast ensemble does outperform Myopic on more
cases than does the meta-learning, but again, the gap is not enor-
mous. We note that timing results for some algorithms (both those
using ProbEst and the BFS-based class of new algorithms; see Sec-
tion 3) may be impacted by our use of an adjacency matrix (rather
than adjacency list) representation for all networks.
0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350
runtime Myopic / runtime Meta-learner
125
100
75
50
25
0
25
50
75
100
125
% better vs Myopic 
22 0
0 150
0
10
0 25
Figure S7: Performance difference vs. speedup for the
meta-learning algorithm relative to Myopic under high
spreadability, with marginal histograms. Results averaged
over 1000 meta-learner runs, and extreme outliers have been
removed for visualization purposes only. Average
performance loss relative to Myopic is 28.20± 25.80, with an
average speedup factor of 133.35± 79.32, but for 22 networks
(12.9%), the meta-learner outperforms Myopic.
0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350
runtime Myopic / runtime Ensemble
125
100
75
50
25
0
25
50
75
100
125
% better vs Myopic 
481
0 124
0
25
0 25
Figure S8: Performance difference vs. speedup for the fast
ensemble algorithm relative to Myopic under medium
spreadability, with marginal histograms. Extreme outliers
have been removed for visualization purposes only. Average
performance loss relative to Myopic is 9.34± 28.34%, with an
average speedup factor of 70.66± 85.65, but for 48 networks
(28.1%), the fast ensemble outperforms Myopic.
D RESULTS ON LARGER NETWORKS
𝑛 𝑚 𝑘 𝐶 𝑙𝑚𝑎𝑥 𝜎2
Email (EU) 34,203 96,669 15.87 0.04 7 770
Google+ (2013) 86,785 688,602 5.65 0.27 47 1,809
Table S2: Statistics of Email (EU) and Google+ (2013)
showing number of nodes 𝑛, number of edges 𝑚, average
node degree𝑘, clustering coefficient𝐶, diameter𝑙𝑚𝑎𝑥 , and
the variance𝜎2 of the degree distribution.
In Table S2, we present summary statistics for the two larger
networks used in Section 4.4. In Figure S10, we evaluate the perfor-
mance of the five algorithms fromXhigh as well as that of Myopic.
16
--- PAGE 17 ---
Figure S10: Minimum access probability vs. seed set size
under the six algorithms inXhigh, evaluated on the two
larger networks, Email (EU) and Google+ (2013) under high
spreadability. Small decreases in 𝜋min are discussed
in Appendix D. The panel on the right shows 𝛽, the slope of
the line of best fit, for each algorithm.
0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350
runtime Myopic / runtime Ensemble
125
100
75
50
25
0
25
50
75
100
125
% better vs Myopic 
471
1 124
0
20
0 25
Figure S9: Performance difference vs. speedup for the fast
ensemble algorithm relative to Myopic under high
spreadability, with marginal histograms. Extreme outliers
have been removed for visualization purposes only. Average
performance loss relative to Myopic is 11.11± 21.8%, with an
average speedup of 101.88± 101.27, but for 47 networks
(27.6%), the fast ensemble algorithm outperforms Myopic.
When evaluating the performance of these algorithms, it is impor-
tant to note that due to the size of the networks, a large increase in
𝜋min is not expected with any algorithm when choosing only 10
seeds. Additionally, when looking at the minimum access probabil-
ity as seeds are added, there are small decreases in𝜋min resulting
from the imprecise nature of ProbEst. This is a limitation on our
ability to evaluate these algorithms, but it is not a restriction on the
algorithms themselves. That being noted, three out of the five al-
gorithms (MinDegree_hc, Gonzalez and LeastCentral) produce
𝛽 values close to, and in some cases even greater than, Myopic
(Figure S10). Although the𝛽 values are predictably low for all al-
gorithms, including Myopic, there is a general positive trend with
most algorithms. From these results, we hypothesize that when
scaled to large networks, the speedup of the algorithms is sustained,
while seed choice quality remains comparable toMyopic for at least
some algorithms.
17